The Power of Truth


Truth is the rock foundation of every great character. It is loyalty to
the right as we see it; it is courageous living of our lives in harmony
with our ideals; it is always—power.

Truth ever defies full definition. Like electricity it can only be
explained by noting its manifestation. It is the compass of the soul,
the guardian of conscience, the final touchstone of right. Truth is the
revelation of the ideal; but it is also an inspiration to realize that
ideal, a constant impulse to live it.

Lying is one of the oldest vices in the world—it made its début in
the first recorded conversation in history, in a famous interview in
the garden of Eden. Lying is the sacrifice of honor to create a wrong
impression. It is masquerading in misfit virtues. Truth can stand
alone, for it needs no chaperone or escort. Lies are cowardly, fearsome
things that must travel in battalions. They are like a lot of drunken
men, one vainly seeking to support another. Lying is the partner and
accomplice of all the other vices. It is the cancer of moral degeneracy
in an individual life.

Truth is the oldest of all the virtues; it antedated man, it lived
before there was man to perceive it or to accept it. It is the
unchangeable, the constant. Law is the eternal truth of Nature—the
unity that always produces identical results under identical
conditions. When a man discovers a great truth in Nature he has the key
to the understanding of a million phenomena; when he grasps a great
truth in morals he has in it the key to his spiritual re-creation. For
the individual, there is no such thing as theoretic truth; a great
truth that is not absorbed by our whole mind and life, and has not
become an inseparable part of our living, is not a real truth to us. If
we know the truth and do not live it, our life is—a lie.

In speech, the man who makes Truth his watchword is careful in his
words, he seeks to be accurate, neither understating nor over-coloring.
He never states as a fact that of which he is not sure. What he says
has the ring of sincerity, the hallmark of pure gold. If he praises
you, you accept his statement as "net," you do not have to work out
a problem in mental arithmetic on the side to see what discount you
ought to make before you accept his judgment. His promise counts for
something, you accept it as being as good as his bond, you know that no
matter how much it may cost him to verify and fulfil his word by his
deed, he will do it. His honesty is not policy. The man who is honest
merely because it is "the best policy," is not really honest, he is
only politic. Usually such a man would forsake his seeming loyalty to
truth and would work overtime for the devil—if he could get better
terms.

Truth means "that which one troweth or believes." It is living simply
and squarely by our belief; it is the externalizing of a faith in a
series of actions. Truth is ever strong, courageous, virile, though
kindly, gentle, calm, and restful. There is a vital difference between
error and untruthfulness. A man may be in error and yet live bravely by
it; he who is untruthful in his life knows the truth but denies it. The
one is loyal to what he believes, the other is traitor to what he knows.

"What is Truth?" Pilate's great question, asked of Christ nearly two
thousand years ago, has echoed unanswered through the ages. We get
constant revelations of parts of it, glimpses of constantly new phases,
but never complete, final definition. If we but live up to the truth
that we know, and seek ever to know more, we have put ourselves into
the spiritual attitude of receptiveness to know Truth in the fullness
of its power. Truth is the sun of morality, and like that lesser sun
in the heavens, we can walk by its light, live in its warmth and life,
even if we see but a small part of it and receive but a microscopic
fraction of its rays.

Which of the great religions of the world is the real, the final, the
absolute truth? We must make our individual choice and live by it as
best we can. Every new sect, every new cult, has in it a grain of
truth, at least; it is this that attracts attention and wins adherents.
This mustard seed of truth is often overestimated, darkening the eyes
of man to the untrue parts or phases of the varying religious faiths.
But, in exact proportion to the basic truth they contain do religions
last, become permanent and growing, and satisfy and inspire the hearts
of men. Mushrooms of error have a quick growth, but they exhaust their
vitality and die, while Truth still lives.

The man who makes the acquisition of wealth the goal and ultimatum of
his life, seeing it as an end rather than a means to an end, is not
true. Why does the world usually make wealth the criterion of success,
and riches the synonym of attainment? Real success in life means
the individual's conquest of himself; it means "how he has bettered
himself" not "how he has bettered his fortune." The great question of
life is not "What have I?" but "What am I?"

Man is usually loyal to what he most desires. The man who lies to save
a nickel, merely proclaims that he esteems a nickel more than he does
his honor. He who sacrifices his ideals, truth and character, for mere
money or position, is weighing his conscience in one pan of a scale
against a bag of gold in the other. He is loyal to what he finds the
heavier, that which he desires the more—the money. But this is not
truth. Truth is the heart's loyalty to abstract right, made manifest in
concrete instances.

The tradesman who lies, cheats, misleads and overcharges and then
seeks to square himself with his anæmic conscience by saying, "lying
is absolutely necessary to business," is as untrue in his statement as
he is in his acts. He justifies himself with the petty defence as the
thief who says it is necessary to steal in order to live. The permanent
business prosperity of an individual, a city or a nation rests finally
on commercial integrity alone, despite all that the cynics may say,
or all the exceptions whose temporary success may mislead them. It is
truth alone that lasts.

The politician who is vacillating, temporizing, shifting, constantly
trimming his sails to catch every puff of wind of popularity, is a
trickster who succeeds only until he is found out. A lie may live for
a time, truth for all time. A lie never lives by its own vitality,
it merely continues to exist because it simulates truth. When it is
unmasked, it dies.

When each of four newspapers in one city puts forth the claim that
its circulation is larger than all the others combined, there must be
an error somewhere. Where there is untruth there is always conflict,
discrepancy, impossibility. If all the truths of life and experience
from the first second of time, or for any section of eternity, were
brought together, there would be perfect harmony, perfect accord, union
and unity, but if two lies come together, they quarrel and seek to
destroy each other.

It is in the trifles of daily life that truth should be our constant
guide and inspiration. Truth is not a dress-suit, consecrated to
special occasions, it is the strong, well-woven, durable homespun for
daily living.

The man who forgets his promises is untrue. We rarely lose sight
of those promises made to us for our individual benefit; these we
regard as checks we always seek to cash at the earliest moment. "The
miser never forgets where he hides his treasure," says one of the old
philosophers. Let us cultivate that sterling honor that holds our word
so supreme, so sacred, that to forget it would seem a crime, to deny it
would be impossible.

The man who says pleasant things and makes promises which to him
are light as air, but to someone else seem the rock upon which a
life's hope is built is cruelly untrue. He who does not regard
his appointments, carelessly breaking them or ignoring them, is
the thoughtless thief of another's time. It reveals selfishness,
carelessness, and lax business morals. It is untrue to the simplest
justice of life.

Men who split hairs with their conscience, who mislead others by
deft, shrewd phrasing which may be true in letter yet lying in spirit
and designedly uttered to produce a false impression, are untruthful
in the most cowardly way. Such men would cheat even in solitaire.
Like murderers they forgive themselves their crime in congratulating
themselves on the cleverness of their alibi.

The parent who preaches honor to his child and gives false statistics
about the child's age to the conductor, to save a nickel, is not true.

The man who keeps his religion in camphor all week and who takes it out
only on Sunday, is not true. He who seeks to get the highest wages for
the least possible amount of service, is not true. The man who has to
sing lullabies to his conscience before he himself can sleep, is not
true.

Truth is the straight line in morals. It is the shortest distance
between a fact and the expression of it. The foundations of truth
should ever be laid in childhood. It is then that parents should instil
into the young mind the instant, automatic turning to truth, making it
the constant atmosphere of the mind and life. Let the child know that
"Truth above all things" should be the motto of its life. Parents make
a great mistake when they look upon a lie as a disease in morals; it
is not always a disease in itself, it is but a symptom. Behind every
untruth is some reason, some cause, and it is this cause that should
be removed. The lie may be the result of fear, the attempt to cover a
fault and to escape punishment; it may be merely the evidence of an
over-active imagination; it may reveal maliciousness or obstinacy; it
may be the hunger for praise that leads the child to win attention and
to startle others by wonderful stories; it may be merely carelessness
in speech, the reckless use of words; it may be acquisitiveness that
makes lying the handmaid of theft. But if, in the life of the child or
the adult, the symptom be made to reveal the disease, and that be then
treated, truth reasserts itself and the moral health is restored.

Constantly telling a child not to lie is giving life and intensity
to "the lie." The true method is to quicken the moral muscles from
the positive side, urge the child to be honest, to be faithful, to
be loyal, to be fearless to the truth. Tell him ever of the nobility
of courage to speak the true, to live the right, to hold fast to
principles of honor in every trifle—then he need never fear to face
any of life's crises.

The parent must live truth or the child will not live it. The child
will startle you with its quickness in puncturing the bubble of your
pretended knowledge; in instinctively piercing the heart of a sophistry
without being conscious of process; in relentlessly enumerating your
unfulfilled promises; in detecting with the justice of a court of
equity a technicality of speech that is virtually a lie. He will
justify his own lapses from truth by appeal to some white lie told to
a visitor, and unknown to be overheard by the little one, whose mental
powers we ever underestimate in theory though we may overpraise in
words.

Teach the child in a thousand ways, directly and indirectly, the
power of truth, the beauty of truth, and the sweetness and rest of
companionship with truth.

And if it be the rock-foundation of the child character, as a fact,
not as a theory, the future of that child is as fully assured as it is
possible for human prevision to guarantee.

The power of Truth, in its highest, purest, and most exalted phases,
stands squarely on four basic lines of relation,—the love of truth,
the search for truth, faith in truth, and work for truth.

The love of Truth is the cultivated hunger for it in itself and for
itself, without any thought of what it may cost, what sacrifices it may
entail, what theories or beliefs of a lifetime may be laid desolate.
In its supreme phase, this attitude of life is rare, but unless one
can _begin_ to put himself into harmony with this view, the individual
will only creep in truth, when he might walk bravely. With the love of
truth, the individual scorns to do a mean thing, no matter what be the
gain, even if the whole world would approve. He would not sacrifice the
sanction of his own high standard for any gain, he would not willingly
deflect the needle of his thought and act from the true North, as he
knows it, by the slightest possible variation. He himself would know of
the deflection—that would be enough. What matters it what the world
thinks if he have his own disapproval?

The man who has a certain religious belief and fears to discuss it,
lest it may be proved wrong, is not loyal to his belief, he has but a
coward's faithfulness to his prejudices. If he were a lover of truth,
he would be willing at any moment to surrender his belief for a higher,
better, and truer faith.

The man who votes the same ticket in politics, year after year, without
caring for issues, men, or problems, merely voting in a certain way
because he always has voted so, is sacrificing loyalty to truth to a
weak, mistaken, stubborn attachment to a worn-out precedent. Such a
man should stay in his cradle all his life—because he spent his early
years there.

The search for Truth means that the individual must not merely follow
truth as he sees it, but he must, so far as he can, search to see that
he is right. When the Kearsarge was wrecked on the Roncador Reef, the
captain was sailing correctly by his chart. But his map was an old one;
the sunken reef was not marked down. Loyalty to back-number standards
means stagnation. In China they plow to-day, but they plow with the
instrument of four thousand years ago. The search for truth is the
angel of progress—in civilization and in morals. While it makes us
bold and aggressive in our own life, it teaches us to be tender and
sympathetic with others. Their life may represent a station we have
passed in our progress, or one we must seek to reach. We can then
congratulate ourselves without condemning them. All the truths of the
world are not concentrated in our creed. All the sunshine of the world
is not focused on our doorstep. We should ever speak the truth,—but
only in love and kindness. Truth should ever extend the hand of love;
never the hand clenching a bludgeon.

Faith in Truth is an essential to perfect companionship with truth.
The individual must have perfect confidence and assurance of the final
triumph of right, and order, and justice, and believe that all things
are evolving toward that divine consummation, no matter how dark and
dreary life may seem from day to day. No real success, no lasting
happiness can exist except it be founded on the rock of truth. The
prosperity that is based on lying, deception, and intrigue, is only
temporary—it cannot last any more than a mushroom can outlive an oak.
Like the blind Samson, struggling in the temple, the individual whose
life is based on trickery always pulls down the supporting columns of
his own edifice, and perishes in the ruins. No matter what price a man
may pay for truth, he is getting it at a bargain. The lying of others
can never hurt us long, it always carries with it our exoneration
in the end. During the siege of Sebastopol, the Russian shells that
threatened to destroy a fort opened a hidden spring of water in the
hillside, and saved the thirsting people they sought to kill.

Work for the interests and advancement of Truth is a necessary part
of real companionship. If a man has a love of truth, if he searches
to find it, and has faith in it, even when he cannot find it, will he
not work to spread it? The strongest way for man to strengthen the
power of truth in the world is to live it himself in every detail of
thought, word, and deed—to make himself a sun of personal radiation of
truth, and to let his silent influence speak for it and his direct acts
glorify it so far as he can in his sphere of life and action. Let him
first seek to _be_, before he seeks to teach or to do, in any line of
moral growth.

Let man realize that Truth is essentially an _intrinsic_ virtue, in his
relation to himself even if there were no other human being living;
it becomes _extrinsic_ as he radiates it in his daily life. Truth is
first, intellectual honesty—the craving to know the right; second, it
is moral honesty, the hunger to live the right.

Truth is not a mere absence of the vices. This is only a moral vacuum.
Truth is the living, pulsing breathing of the virtues of life. Mere
refraining from wrong-doing is but keeping the weeds out of the garden
of one's life. But this must be followed by positive planting of the
seeds of right to secure the flowers of true living. To the negatives
of the Ten Commandments must be added the positives of the Beatitudes.
The one condemns, the other commends; the one forbids, the other
inspires; the one emphasizes the act, the other the spirit behind the
act. The whole truth rests not in either, but in both.

A man cannot truly believe in God without believing in the final
inevitable triumph of Truth. If you have Truth on your side you can
pass through the dark valley of slander, misrepresentation and abuse,
undaunted, as though you wore a magic suit of mail that no bullet could
enter, no arrow could pierce. You can hold your head high, toss it
fearlessly and defiantly, look every man calmly and unflinchingly in
the eye, as though you rode, a victorious king, returning at the head
of your legions with banners waving and lances glistening, and bugles
filling the air with music. You can feel the great expansive wave of
moral health surging through you as the quickened blood courses through
the body of him who is gladly, gloriously proud of physical health. You
will know that all will come right in the end, that it _must_ come,
that error must flee before the great white light of truth, as darkness
slinks away into nothingness in the presence of the sunburst. Then,
with Truth as your guide, your companion, your ally, and inspiration,
you tingle with the consciousness of your kinship with the Infinite and
all the petty trials, sorrows and sufferings of life fade away like
temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream.




The Courage to Face Ingratitude




The Courage to Face Ingratitude


Ingratitude, the most popular sin of humanity, is forgetfulness of the
heart. It is the revelation of the emptiness of pretended loyalty. The
individual who possesses it finds it the shortest cut to all the other
vices.

Ingratitude is a crime more despicable than revenge, which is only
returning evil for evil, while ingratitude returns evil for good.
People who are ungrateful rarely forgive you if you do them a good
turn. Their microscopic hearts resent the humiliation of having been
helped by a superior, and this rankling feeling filtering through their
petty natures often ends in hate and treachery.

Gratitude is thankfulness expressed in action. It is the instinctive
radiation of justice, giving new life and energy to the individual
from whom it emanates. It is the heart's recognition of kindness that
the lips cannot repay. Gratitude never counts its payments. It realizes
that no debt of kindness can ever be outlawed, ever be cancelled,
ever paid in full. Gratitude ever feels the insignificance of its
instalments; ingratitude the nothingness of the debt. Gratitude is the
flowering of a seed of kindness; ingratitude is the dead inactivity of
a seed dropped on a stone.

The expectation of gratitude is human; the rising superior to
ingratitude is almost divine. To desire recognition of our acts of
kindness and to hunger for appreciation and the simple justice of a
return of good for good, is natural. But man never rises to the dignity
of true living until he has the courage that dares to face ingratitude
calmly, and to pursue his course unchanged when his good works meet
with thanklessness or disdain.

Man should have only one court of appeals as to his actions, not "what
will be the result?" "how will it be received?" but "is it right?" Then
he should live his life in harmony with this standard alone, serenely,
bravely, loyally and unfalteringly, making "right for right's sake"
both his ideal and his inspiration.

Man should not be an automatic gas-machine, cleverly contrived to
release a given quantity of illumination under the stimulus of a
nickel. He should be like the great sun itself which ever radiates
light, warmth, life and power, because it cannot help doing so,
because these qualities fill the heart of the sun, and for it to have
them means that it must give them constantly. Let the sunlight of our
sympathy, tenderness, love, appreciation, influence and kindness ever
go out from us as a glow to brighten and hearten others. But do not
let us ever spoil it all by going through life constantly collecting
receipts, as vouchers, to stick on the file of our self-approval.

It is hard to see those who have sat at our board in the days of our
prosperity, flee as from a pestilence when misfortune darkens our
doorway; to see the loyalty upon which we would have staked our life,
that seemed firm as a rock, crack and splinter like thin glass at the
first real test; to know that the fire of friendship at which we could
ever warm our hands in our hour of need, has turned to cold, dead, gray
ashes, where warmth is but a haunting memory.

To realize that he who once lived in the sanctuary of our affection,
in the frank confidence where conversation seemed but our soliloquy,
and to whom our aims and aspirations have been thrown open with no
Bluebeard chamber of reserve, has been secretly poisoning the waters of
our reputation and undermining us by his lies and treachery, is hard
indeed. But no matter how the ingratitude stings us, we should just
swallow the sob, stifle the tear, smile serenely and bravely, and—seek
to forget.

In justice to ourselves we should not permit the ingratitude of a
few to make us condemn the whole world. We pay too much tribute to a
few human insects when we let their wrong-doing paralyze our faith
in humanity. It is a lie of the cynics that says "_all_ men are
ungrateful," a companion lie to "_all_ men have their price." We must
trust humanity if we would get good from humanity. He who thinks all
mankind is vile is a pessimist who mistakes his introspection for
observation; he looks into his own heart and thinks he sees the world.
He is like a cross-eyed man, who never sees what he seems to be looking
at.

Confidence and credit are the cornerstones of business, as they are
of society. Withdraw them from business and the activities and
enterprises of the world would stop in an instant, topple and fall
into chaos. Withdraw confidence in humanity from the individual, and
he becomes but a breathing, selfish egotist, the one good man left,
working overtime in nursing his petty grudge against the world because
a few whom he has favored have been ungrateful.

If a man receives a counterfeit dollar he does not straightway lose his
faith in all money,—at least there are no such instances on record in
this country. If he has a run of three or four days of dull weather he
does not say "the sun ceases to exist, there are surely no bright days
to come in the whole calendar of time."

If a man's breakfast is rendered an unpleasant memory by some item of
food that has outlived its usefulness, he does not forswear eating. If
a man finds under a tree an apple with a suspicious looking hole on
one side, he does not condemn the whole orchard; he simply confines
his criticism to that apple. But he who has helped some one who,
later, did not pass a good examination on gratitude, says in a voice
plaintive with the consciousness of injury, and with a nod of his head
that implies the wisdom of Solomon: "I have had my experience, I have
learned my lesson. This is the last time I will have faith in any man.
I did this for him, and that for him, and now, look at the result!"

Then he unrolls a long schedule of favors, carefully itemized and
added up, till it seems the pay-roll of a great city. He complains of
the injustice of one man, yet he is willing to be unjust to the whole
world, making it bear the punishment of the wrong of an individual.
There is too much vicarious suffering already in this earth of ours
without this lilliputian attempt to extend it by syndicating one man's
ingratitude. If one man drinks to excess, it is not absolute justice
to send the whole world to jail.

The farmer does not expect every seed that he sows in hope and faith
to fall on good ground and bring forth its harvest; he is perfectly
certain that this will not be so, cannot be. He is counting on the
final outcome of many seeds, on the harvest of all, rather than on the
harvest of one. If you really want gratitude, and must have it, be
willing to make many men your debtors.

The more unselfish, charitable and exalted the life and mission of the
individual, the larger will be the number of instances of ingratitude
that must be met and vanquished. The thirty years of Christ's life was
a tragedy of ingratitudes. Ingratitude is manifest in three degrees of
intensity in the world—He knew them all in numberless bitter instances.

The first phase, the simplest and most common, is that of thoughtless
thanklessness, as was shown in the case of the ten lepers healed in
one day—nine departed without a word, only _one_ gave thanks.

The second phase of ingratitude is denial, a positive sin, not the
mere negation of thanklessness. This was exemplified in Peter, whose
selfish desire to stand well with two maids and some bystanders, in
the hour when he had the opportunity to be loyal to Christ, forgot his
friendship, lost all thought of his indebtedness to his Master, and
denied Him, not once or twice, but three times.

The third phase of ingratitude is treachery, where selfishness grows
vindictive, as shown by Judas, the honored treasurer of the little band
of thirteen, whose jealousy, ingratitude, and thirty pieces of silver,
made possible the tragedy of Calvary.

These three—thanklessness, denial and treachery—run the gamut of
ingratitude, and the first leads to the second, and the second prepares
the way for the third.

